We are all done with our sign in and sign up route handlers.
We're not going to start to move on to a current user.
So inside my route directory, I'll find the current user file.
Let me first begin by telling you the goal of this route.
Handler So here's what we're going to try to implement at some point in time.
Our React application is going to need to figure out whether or not the user is signed into our application.
The React application cannot directly look at the cookie and try to inspect and decide whether or not
there is a valid JSON web token inside there.
We have set up our cookies in such a way that they cannot be executed or accessed from JavaScript running
inside the browser.
So instead the React application needs to be able to make a request to something inside of our app to
figure out whether or not the user is currently logged in.
And that is the goal of this current user route handler.
So at some point in time, our React application is going to make a request to figure out who the current
user is or essentially whether or not the user is logged in.
That request is going to include a cookie if it exists.
So we are going to get a cookie with this incoming request.
Maybe if the user is not logged in, there will be no cookie, but if they are logged in, there will
be a cookie present.
So inside of our service or more specifically inside of this current user route handler, we're going
to take a look at that rec session, JWT property.
So remember, that is where we are going to see our JSON Web token show up.
So if the cookie is set, there will be a JSON web token there.
If the cookie is not set.
Chances are there will not be a JSON web token.
So we're going to then take a look at that property.
If it is not set or if for some reason the JSON web token is invalid.
Then we're going to return early and we're going to send back a response that looks like this.
Otherwise, if there is a JSON web token set on that session and the JSON Web token is valid, then
we're going to send back the payload that is stored inside the JSON web token.
So it's going to look something like this right here.
We're going to provide an object with a current user property.
And then for current user, we're going to put in the payload from the JSON web token.
So that's the general idea.
You'll notice I put in this diagram, I said if the JSON web token is invalid or valid.
So remember, at any given point in time, a user can technically try to mess around with their JSON
web token.
They can try to manipulate the information inside there and pretend that they are some other user or
change their email address or something like that.
But because we have set up this secure signature thing with JSON Web token, we're going to be able
to very easily detect if the JSON Web token has been manipulated in any way.
So if it has been manipulated, that's the case in which we will just return early and say, sorry,
you're not logged in.
Your JSON web token doesn't really look all that valid.
Okay.
So with all this in mind, let's take a quick pause right here.
When we get back the next video, we'll put all this implementation together inside of our current user
route handler.